Temporal Selves Chat

This repository contains a web-based prototype that allows participants to:

1. Define a Past Self and a Future Self
2. Chat with each self as a separate conversational agent
3. Reflect on differences between the two conversations

The overall interaction flow is fixed, while content, framing, and wording are customizable.

Do not change the overall interaction flow
The app always follows this sequence:
1. Customize: Participants define a Past Self and a Future Self
2. Chat separately with Past Self and Future Self (Each self responds based on the descriptions written in the first step)
3. Reflection: Participants answer reflection questions after chatting
⚠️ Do not change the order or remove any step.

However, you can use your creativity and research mind to change the app based on the needs of your research:
1. Wording and framing;
2. What can be customized (you may want to add a cusotmized avatar or other traits that your research needs)
3. The conversation topics
4. The appearance of the website
Throughout the codebase, you will see comments marked: STUDENT-EDITABLE ZONE


Getting Started
1. Fork the repository
Click Fork on GitHub and work from your own copy.

2. Install dependencies
From the repository root, run at terminal: npm install

3. Set up the API key
Create a file called .env.local in the repository root with the following content:
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
⚠️ Do not commit this file (You can use Codespace in GitHub)
⚠️The app will not work without a valid API key and available credit

4. Run the app: npm run dev

5. Then open the portal



These indicate places where you can safely make changes.

Typical customization points include:

Page titles and explanatory text

Field labels and placeholder wording

How the Past Self and Future Self are framed

The tone and guidance rules used in the chat (safeguards)

Reflection questions shown after the chat

Which fields are required vs. optional

You are encouraged to adapt wording, framing, and prompts.

What You Should NOT Change

To keep the system functional, do not:

Remove either the Past Self or the Future Self

Merge the two chats into one conversation

Change the page order (Customize → Chat → Reflection)

Remove the safeguard layer in the chat prompts

Modify the API route unless you know what you are doing

If something breaks, first revert changes outside the editable zones.

Notes on Chat Behavior

The Past Self and Future Self are implemented as two distinct conversational agents. Each agent is shaped by:
1. the participant-written short bio
2. the longer description
a built-in safeguard layer that encourages supportive, constructive responses
Responses are not intended as professional, medical, or therapeutic advice

Deployment (Optional)
If you want to share this app with participants: You can deploy it using Vercel or a similar service
Store the API key as an environment variable on the server
Be aware that each chat message uses the OpenAI API and may incur cost


Data & Privacy
By default:
Data is stored locally in the participant’s browser
No login or authentication is required
No personally identifiable information is enforced
If you plan to collect or export data, you are responsible for handling consent and storage appropriately.

Troubleshooting
App does not start → Check Node version (Node ≥ 18 required)
Chat replies fail → Check API key validity and account credit
Layout breaks after editing → Revert changes outside editable zones

Summary
This repository provides:
A ready-to-run prototype
Clear customization points
A stable interaction structure
Use it as a base and adapt the content and framing, not the core flow.
